>> The Western lifestyle is
built on a fight or flight mode,
everything is go, go, go.
This response disconnects
people from themselves.
It's about raising
people's awareness,
opening up their consciousness,
opening up their horizons.
>> My workday starts at 5:30
in the morning when I wake up.
And usually, I'm going
a million miles an hour
until I fall into bed.
>> I'm a type 2 diabetic,
diagnosed about a year ago.
>> I lost my mother
two years ago.
>> I got up in the morning one
day and was just going, oh, God,
I really need some help.
>> I was shaking and
struggling to breathe.
>> The doctors, he gave me
a percentage of have a heart
attack.
And his answer was 18%,
but it should be 1%.
>> I went in for a very standard
eye surgery that went horribly
wrong.
>> I've been having cameras down
and off to the doctors and off
to hospitals.
>> The depression that
just comes, I just, again,
just close off.
And I can't really function.
>> This place down in Thailand
says it can actually change
your head around, change
your inner space around.
>> It feels different.
It's so bizarre.
>> Heading for a retreat on an
island in the North China Sea,
Nick Knowles joins a group who
are all seeking the antidote
for the strains of modern life.
How will the gang cope with a
completely new way of living?
>> I think that some of the
participants didn't really know
what they were getting into.
>> It's almost cultish.
>> I think it's going
to be a challenge.
>> Will 28 days of detox and
alternative therapies be enough
to change their lives?
>> This is one kickass detox.
>> Welcome to Thailand.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Just start filming
the bags and such.
Oh, you started filming already?
>> Yeah.
Hello, mate.
>> That's going to be like
that on the screen now.
>> I don't know.
How are you feeling?
>> I'm good.
Yeah.
You?
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
Happy new year, Sam.
Where's Julian?
>> He's--
>> Is that all the
baggage you've got?
>> Yeah.
That's it.
Traveling light, sir.
>> As you can see, everyone's
trying to organize it, me,
Jules, and our lovely lady.
Maggie is just standing back,
let everyone else take--
>> Responsibility.
>> Yes.
>> We're all having fun because
this could be our very last
chance to have a life apart
from all of we're going to drink
and eat everything on the plane.
>> We just had a long flight.
We got one hour to go.
It's been all right.
It's been very comfortable and--
>> Very nice.
You're snoring.
>> You're snoring.
>> Was I?
>> Yeah.
Yeah.
It must have been.
>> Ah.
>> And he had a lovely
full breakfast in here.
>> Well, it was more lunch
because when you think about it,
we've skipped all our breakfast
time and moved on to lunch time.
>> We are eight hours ahead.
So it's now-- it's my birthday.
>> Happy birthday, Bill.
>> Thank you.
I spent my birthday on a plane.
I have been to the doctors.
And he gave me a percentage
of over the next 10 years,
how much percentage I
will have a heart attack.
And his answer was 18%, which
I thought was brilliant,
but it should be 1%.
>> I'm an executive within media
services, incredibly stressful.
I lost my mother two years ago.
So I think all of
that combined, I
feel as though I'd lost my way.
I think it's-- I found it
difficult to find another job.
So again, I was blaming--
I feel that I'm blaming myself.
I feel that I'm not
of any significance.
I think this time, when
I was made redundant,
I did and I know I shouldn't
have done, I took it personally.
>> I've just turned 47 in
the last couple of weeks.
Hearing about this and
being able to do this is--
I want to start my new
mission before I hit that 50.
Instead of going, right, I'm
50, it's time to get fit,
it's time to do this now,
it's time to stop now,
it's time to stop smoking.
This is a good time for
me to start doing it now.
>> I think I need to change
some of my lifestyle.
I think I need to change
my perspective on me, being
a mother and a wife
and holding down a job.
Eventually, something gives.
And I think this is
part of the reason why
I wanted to come over
here, I think, probably
to find Maggie again.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> This is how we've arrived
at the place, on a jetty,
awaiting to get a boat to take
us out from Koh Samui to Koh
Phangan.
I don't even know if
I'm pronouncing it
right at the moment.
So I'm just going to
watch the bags on board.
We've lost the camera
crew because we've also
lost the camera equipment.
So we're working on this
little camera for the moment
and maybe doing that
tomorrow as well.
But that's just the
nature of travel
in these parts of the world.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> We've arrived.
Now would you get in the front,
try to drive where we got to go.
>> [LAUGHS] Let go to drive.
>> After traveling 9,800
kilometers by planes, trains,
and automobiles, and the
occasional speedboat,
the first of the nine
arrive on the island.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So I'm guessing, this
is a really touristy end
and we're not--
>> Just driving
through these lanes--
>> Out into the countryside.
>> --down into the--
>> Yeah.
>> --village.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> And we're only passing
between the days of daylight,
ain't we?
So we're right in the evening.
>> Yeah, right.
>> Yeah?
Who told you that?
[LAUGHTER]
>> The detox program the gang
will undertake over the next
month is strictly supervised by
a team of medical professionals
and experts.
>> Did any of you put
rocks in this bag?
Heavier and heavier.
>> Watch yourself when
you step off this.
>> There's a big
hole down there.
>> Just keep cruising by.
>> Having made their
way across Koh Phangan,
the gang settle in, looking
forward to a welcome meal.
>> Four.
>> See it?
It's cool.
Must have a shower in it.
It's definitely chill in there.
I like the bamboo stuff
that's going on, yeah.
>> To their surprise, the vegan
precleanse starts immediately.
>> Milton, stop eating.
[LAUGHS]
>> That's yours.
>> Is that right?
So I look at that and I sort
of think, take more energy
eating it than what it's worth.
Really?
>> Tastes nice.
>> Does it taste nice?
It's all beginning to
dawn on me a little bit.
>> You worried?
>> Really.
>> I'm quite, yeah.
>> No breakfast in the morning?
>> No.
And then when we get back,
we've got a fruit salad.
A bit worried about that, mate.
>> Don't worry about it, Jules.
It'll be fine.
It'll be good for you.
It'll be character forming.
>> Never not eaten in my life.
>> I know.
I know.
And you get a bit emotional
when you don't, don't you?
>> I do.
I get a bit grumpy.
I get a bit emotional.
>> What are you laughing at?
Yeah, serve you, sausage.
[LAUGHS]
>> As dawn breaks
over Koh Phangan,
some of the gang are already
wondering what they've taken on.
>> Yeah, so here we
are, in Thailand.
Doing a detox.
Something I would have never
have gone for off me own back.
But Nick heard about it
and was interested in it
and said he was going to do it.
And he invited me and Billy to
come along and go through it
with him.
>> What's wrong
with that, is it?
Wake up to that each morning.
Although this is actually
the noisiest place.
It looks like paradise.
Actually, it's
the noisiest place
I've ever stayed on holiday.
>> Yesterday when we came in, we
got given a program of what we
got to do.
And it's quite intense.
It's quite full on, which I
didn't think it was going to be.
>> Cats, dogs, mopeds, cars
in the middle of the night.
Boats coming in with
the noisiest engines
that you've ever
heard in your life.
>> It's quite regimented.
We got a schedule to go to.
>> Animals that are two inches
long producing noises like they
should be from 13
foot long dragon.
>> I'm not convinced yet whether
I should have or yet or not.
But we'll see.
Only time will tell.
[LAUGHS]
>> Overnight, the rest
of the gang has arrived.
And they get to know each other
on their way to the hospital.
>> I stopped working about
two years ago with burnout.
I got up in the morning one day,
and I was just going, oh God, I
really need some help.
I'd come here and I
wanted to get healthy.
But I was still
finding myself drawn
to eating the unhealthy stuff
and still gaining weight.
>> I haven't opened it yet.
>> Oh, I know nothing.
>> I am a police officer.
I went to the doctor I
was telling him everything
that I had on at the moment.
And he said that your
bucket of life is full up,
and we need to
take something out.
And that he thought
I was suffering
from anxiety and depression.
I was really shocked.
I wasn't expecting--
--to be signed off work.
I was there one day
and not the next.
So I think people
wondered why I went
and what was wrong with
me, because no one at work
had any idea.
So.
I know.
It's the production work.
Yeah.
>> It's my video diary.
>> I feel like I need to
do something drastic that I
haven't done before.
I need to be brave and
take a leap of faith
and just hope that
the experience
makes me feel a lot better.
>> Before being allowed to
undertake the extreme nature
of the 28-day program, the
gang will be overseen using
conventional medicine and
have to pass a full physical.
And any ongoing
medical conditions
are checked as an
extra precaution.
>> Eight years ago, I went in
for what's considered a very
standard eye surgery
that went horribly wrong.
And I developed a
chronic eye disease
from it that has caused me
eight years of severe pain, very
little sleep, and can eventually
lead to me being legally blind.
In fact, I'm pretty much there
already with the right eye.
So I've spent the last eight
years looking for a cure.
And I've been to various healers
in various parts of the world
and worked with different
modalities and different diets.
But I've never had
the good fortune
to relax into 25 days
of completely being held
by a beautiful team of healers,
fabulous food, wonderful people
that are on the same path.
And I'm very hopeful
that I'll find healing
through this program.
>> Take a seat, please.
>> Thank you.
>> Can you tell me this?
>> Yeah.
I'm hoping to find just
some guidance and a purpose.
>> Your blood pleasure is good.
>> Thank you.
>> Normal.
>> I actually thought Ron said,
do you want to come on a passion
retreat?
I didn't hear the
compassion bit before.
I signed up immediately.
OK, thank you.
>> You're welcome.
>> I am shy.
It's a challenge for me.
But I thought, if
I'm going to do this,
I might as well be all in.
>> The good news is after
this, you can have water.
>> After this?
I'm so excited.
There are cameras
watching and they--
I'm not going to
worry about that.
And I can have my water.
Yes.
>> It's the results of these
tests that will be used to judge
whether the program
has been a success.
>> Better weight.
Better blood pressure
and that height.
And now they're going
to take some blood.
And then I believe a
chest X-ray afterwards.
It's all getting
it very exciting.
>> It's possible that my
blood pressure might be high
because I've been
sitting talking to Billy.
He makes my blood
pressure very high.
>> OK, let me have a check
of your lungs and your heart.
>> It's because I'm fat.
[LAUGHS]
>> Keep your pee-pees--
>> Yeah, there's not--
>> --when you're done.
>> Yes.
I'm not sure that I'm going
to be able to produce any.
>> Try first.
>> Yeah, but I
haven't drunk for--
--six, seven hours.
You're not coming to
the toilet with me?
Where do you think you're going?
I'm going to go in here, and
I'll see you in a minute.
Amazingly successful.
Because you sit
here in a hospital
so close to all
these health resorts.
I mean, a lot of
the stuff that-- it
seems to me that a
lot of this stuff's
fairly straightforward anyway.
If you eat less
fat and less meat
and you eat a healthier diet,
you'll be a healthier person.
>> Exactly.
So yeah.
But the other extreme
is we have people
who believe in taking garlic
instead of antibiotics.
And they come in with a garlic
clove stuck in their ear
that they can't
get out, you know.
We've had quite a few of them.
And it's my
understanding really what
they're doing wrong is
they're suppose to crush
the garlic before they
put it in their ear
before it can be effective.
I don't know.
That's not my
field of expertise.
>> Yeah.
OK, right.
Thanks.
>> The tests all done, they
head back to the retreat to wait
for the results.
[HONKS]
And as soon as they
return, they are
rushed straight into a meeting
with the camp's mentors.
>> Welcome to the retreat, guys.
Welcome.
>> Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>> The inspiration came from
me meeting this guy out here.
And we want you to
experience hopefully
what we've experienced.
We both came here with different
issues and different problems.
We're going to be here as
mentors and supporters.
And if you've ever got any
questions, just come and ask us.
>> Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
>> So my name's Dominique.
I am the detox manager at Orion.
Today, we're going to
talk about the detox.
OK, so what you're going to do,
today you are on precleanse.
So you are eating raw
food to prepare your body,
to alkalize your body,
alkalize your cells.
To have a little bit less pain.
To have less
withdrawal symptoms.
Because if you
don't prepare, you
can have a big
headache and nausea
and all sorts of symptoms.
So we're trying to
prepare you a little bit.
Here, we do yoga.
We go to the sauna.
So we sweat the toxins out.
You do two colema per day.
So you're going to clean your
colon two times per day, which
is going to make the process
of detoxification go faster.
OK, so don't worry.
You're going to feel
good at some point.
This is going too far.
[LAUGHS]
I want to start with
a little present.
A little liver flush drink.
>> Thank you.
>> We are still giving you the
coconut in the morning to give
you some sugar, to give you
some electrolytes, minerals.
And we give you a broth
and a tea at night.
And you have all this food,
all these supplements.
The supplements are
the green pills.
This is spirulina, chlorella,
alfalfa, moringa, wheatgrass.
All the supergreens
you need to nourish
your cells and your tissues.
So this is like your food, OK.
Then the chomper are
the yellow pills.
Those are made with a bunch of
herbs like triphala, turmeric.
You can smell the difference.
Those are intestinal
cleaners, so they're going
to clean your intestinal tract.
And before you go to bed,
you take one probiotic,
which is the white capsule in
the bag with the supplements,
OK.
The bentonite clay is very good
to get all the bad stuff out,
but it also takes
your good stuff out,
like your healthy bacteria.
So we want to replace those.
And at the end of
the week, we're
going to do a probiotic
implant the other way around.
OK, but I will show
you when it's time.
OK, we do one day
at a time here.
OK.
Exciting, huh?
But today, we are chilling.
We're still on precleanse.
We're going to have another
nice meal, another liver
flush tonight.
Enjoy the food while you can.
And then tomorrow,
the party starts.
>> I have to say, it's the one
part of this whole process that
I've actually been
really dreading.
The starving myself I
can actually deal with.
It's doing the colema,
or colonics, or whatever
you call it back in the--
>> I'm not looking
forward to it at all.
>> No.
>> Actually, I think I'll panic.
I've even gone to
the clinic, and we
could have had it done there
by a professional where--
>> You could do it twice a day.
So you can't go to the
hospital twice a day, can you?
>> After the first time, you
might be all right with it.
It might not be the
much panic, because you
think, oh, that weren't as
bad as you thought it was.
But it's knowing that much
water, once you get the cramps
and you've got to stop
and you've got to do this.
I don't know.
It's a worry.
But--
>> I just don't fancy having
a tube stuck on me [BLEEPS]..
I mean, it's as simple
as that, really.
>> I think that some of the
participants didn't really know
what they were getting into.
They knew they were coming
for transformation and detox.
But I see the faces when
I explain certain things,
like the shakes and
the colema, especially.
I think a lot of them
are scared right now.
[LAUGHS]
>> Similar building techniques.
I've had quite a lot of
indigestion problems at home.
Having cameras down
and off to the doctors
and off to hospitals.
And it's all a dietary thing.
So I knew I had
to change my diet.
>> Hello.
>> Yeah.
>> Hello, I'm Gypsy.
>> Oh, hello.
>> Nice to meet you.
>> So that's our little
crowd over there.
Interesting from
our point of view,
because we meet a lot
of people for whom
this is a natural environment.
That's not us.
You met Billy, yeah?
We think he's in a
constant meditative state.
Because I was asking
someone to explain to me
what meditation is.
And they were saying that
basically-- because I can't
imagine not having thoughts.
And they said, well, it's not
that you don't have thoughts,
but you don't hang on to them.
They come in, and then
you let them flow out.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, that's
exactly how he works.
The thoughts come in and flow
straight out of his mouth
without any kind of thought
attachment or filter at all.
So he's in a constant meditative
state, as far as I can tell.
I associate the idea of
meditation and things
with that sort of--
for want of a better
expression, hippiedom,
which is like dropping
out of society.
So I can't associate actually
using it in everyday--
>> Yeah.
That's the key.
You can use it in everyday
life, because everything
is a meditation.
And everything that you do.
You've got Qigong and Tai Chi.
They're like moving meditations.
It's focusing your mind.
And you train your mind to
do what you want it to do.
>> OK, I see I have
a lot to learn.
>> As the gang starts to realize
the extent of the challenge
ahead, Dominique prepares the
last meal they'll have for seven
days.
>> So I'm making a raw pad thai.
I'm using zucchini as my pasta.
And I'm using this machine
here to make my pasta.
Magic.
So that's it.
We have our spaghetti.
And then I can add
some colors in it.
A little bit of squash.
A little bit of carrot.
A little bit of sprouts
and flower sprout.
Really good, really yummy.
In any salad.
And then some green onions.
>> Even though the first week
of the retreat is all about not
eating, the complete program is
all about providing your body
with nutrients from a
solely plant-based menu.
>> Some B12 vitamin.
>> To supercharge the detox and
revitalize the body's cells.
>> Finish, coconut soup.
Coconut.
>> Coconut water.
[SPEAKING THAI]
Green salad.
>> Tomato.
Lemongrass.
Pepper.
Salt. Soy sauce.
>> Oh, I forgot soy sauce.
>> Oh, forgot soy sauce.
[LAUGHS]
>> Sorry.
>> Healthy fast food.
>> This is the last supper.
Like on death row, you know.
And they chose pad
thai, raw pad thai.
And some time, they are coming.
>> Wow.
I can think of worse
places to be, though.
>> I know.
>> Yeah.
[LAUGHS]
>> >> Some time.
[CHATTER]
>> I'm really not even hungry.
>> You're not hungry?
>> So you're hungry?
I've had a lot of water.
>> What's that one?
>> It's raw papaya salad.
>> It's nice.
>> So how was the hub?
>> Yeah, you must be
starting to get cold.
>> It's a walk along
the beach, basically.
So it's a reasonable
walk along the beach.
Just head round through.
Take the bridge over.
Turn right.
Follow it through.
Find the beach at the far side.
And it's a beautiful
spot to be doing
yoga, which is what
we'll be doing--
where we'll be doing our
exercises for the last three
weeks.
>> Oh, OK, great.
>> So who's looking after--
>> And not just on its own.
It's got other flavoring
in there as well.
>> But she's got--
>> I know.
>> It's a nice peanut
butter taste to it.
Ah, there you go.
Peanut butter, yeah.
>> Happy about that.
>> Can I steal some?
>> Is it actually seven
days from tomorrow?
>> I can't even remember.
My brain shut down.
Completely don't
ask me anything.
>> As evening settles
over Koh Phangan,
the results come back
from the hospital.
And it's good news
for all but one.
Next time on The Retreat.
>> Milton's going to be on a
different program than you.
He has all the chances
to control and reverse
his diabetes.
This is the colema tip.
The part that has holes is the
part that goes inside of you.
Yesterday, I showed
them a movie.
Not all of them went.
>> I want to make
me own mind up.
It's almost cultish
where they try and--
>> It's a little bit, isn't it?
>> Almost brainwash you.
>> All right, note to self.
This is one kickass detox.
>> First of all, I'm going to
put the tube into coconut oil
to make it a little bit smoother
for when it enters my butt.
>> Before attempting any of the
detox techniques or practices
demonstrated in The Retreat,
you are advised to seek out
your doctor's advice.